Python Project for AI & Application Development
by IBM Skills Network

About this Course
This mini course is intended to apply basic Python skills for developing Artificial Intelligence (AI) enabled applications. In this hands-on project you will assume the role of a developer and perform tasks including:  
- Develop functions and application logic 
- Exchange data using Watson APIs  
- Write unit tests, and 
- Package the application for distribution. 

You will demonstrate your foundational Python skills by employing different techniques to develop web applications and AI powered solutions. Upon completing this course, you will have added another project to your portfolio and gained the confidence to begin developing AI enabled applications using Python and Flask, Watson APIs, build and run unit tests, and package the application for distribution out in the real world.   

PRE-REQUISITE: **Python for Data Science, AI and Development** course from IBM is a pre-requisite for this project course. Please ensure that before taking this course you have either completed the Python for Data Science, AI and Development course from IBM or have equivalent proficiency in working with Python and data.  

NOTE: This course is not intended to teach you Python and does not have too much instructional content. It is intended for you to apply prior Python knowledge.


Week 1
Python - Unit testing, module packaging and web application development
In this module, you will be introduced to the process of packaging, unit testing in Python and Flask, a microweb framework, the creation of web applications using flask. Packaging allows the Cloud Application Developer to produce a coding unit that can be tested and integrated into a codebase. Unit testing assures that code is error-free and integrates properly within a larger project. Flask is an open-source python package that allows you to create web applications.

3 videos, 1 reading, 1 practice quiz
Video: Unit Testing
LTI Item: Hands-on Lab: Unit Testing
Video: Packaging
LTI Item: Hands-on Lab: Creating a Python Package
Ungraded Plugin: Reading: Python Style Guide
Reading: Overview of Static Code Analysis Hands-on lab
LTI Item: Hands-on Lab: Static Code Analysis
Video: Creating Web Applications Using Flask
Ungraded Plugin: Reading: Decorators in Flask
LTI Item: Hands-on Lab: Web Applications using Flask
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Graded Quiz


Week 2
Final Assignment - Python Web Application
1 reading
Ungraded Plugin: Reading: Project Scenario and Review Criteria
Ungraded Plugin: Reading: Project Overview
LTI Item: Obtain IBM Cloud Feature Code and Activate Trial Account
Ungraded Plugin: Reading: Pre-work for Cloud Application Development
LTI Item: Hands-on Lab: Python Web Application Creation and Deployment
Reading: Next Steps

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Submit Your Work and Review Your Peers
